(0:03 - 4:35)
Okay, so this is the third section today. I will cover the optionality value calculator and I will just give it a name. The value we call the OAK, optionality adjusted kilowatt value, right, so it will become OAK value here.
 
So first a little bit of a background of what this means. So the biggest resource constraint right now in data centers is energy. And from the business perspective, all the data center people are saying, how do we turn every single kilowatt into dollar, right, so make money.
 
But depending on how you do it, you can actually create, generate more dollar or fewer dollars per single kilowatt. And because the infrastructure has a certain level of constraints, and the OAK evaluator is a mechanism for us to quantify the value of every kilowatt of power depending on the placement of the load. So if you place the load in a way that destroys tenant isolation, you actually don't make as much money out of your total kilowatt as you would have been.
 
An analogy would be a commercial building, right. So in a commercial building, what do you call it? You call it square footage, right. So for the same building with the same square footage, right, when you start to accept tenants and tenants say, I want this, you may place the tenants in different ways and say, well, I have 20 employees or I have 50 employees, we want this or that.
 
You place your tenants in different configurations, right. If the placement is right, you don't destroy the containment boundaries, which means, oh, okay, great, you can have a private suite, but the next tenant who comes can also have a private suite, right. But if you don't placement in the best way, you break up these containment boundaries, right.
 
So people are willing to pay less because they don't get their privacy or some things, right. And therefore your value, your optionality value gets lower. So in the future, you may say, if you have better optionality value, it means that in the future, I can find a configuration, whether there are five small tenants or two big tenants.
 
And that's a good optionality because you have different ways of combinatorial shuffle and all of them may respect infrastructure isolation. But you don't have optionality value. You say, I only have one way to do this.
 
And if a big tenant comes, it works. But if two small or three small tenant comes, it doesn't work, right. That's a low, that's what we call optionality adjusted value, that the value of a kilowatt in a data center is higher if you actually have more future options, new future ways to deal with the uncertain inflow of tenant coming to you, right.
 
So it's a very business centric concept or number, right. Okay. And what I said earlier, this is also a background slide, right, is that this whole value is associated with a level of containment, right.
 
Containment meaning I have my own and I don't have undue influence from my neighbor tenants, right, next door. And in real estate, commercial real estate may be I have my own room, right, physical boundary. But in data centers, we know the boundary is not just physical, it's also electrical and cooling, right, thermal.
 
So which means if are you sharing a cooling zone with someone else? Are you sharing a room PDU with someone else? And it did matter before, right, when we don't have AI because you may be happily sharing, sitting next to your rack is another rack of a different company. But now given the constraint, some may become physical, right, your power availability, your cooling availability. So quite a lot of tenants do not like to share their infrastructure environment with other tenants.
 
(4:36 - 5:55)
Even within the same company, they may try to isolate different projects into different blocks. And that's exactly the reason we create the white space constructs of capacity cells and of containment bundles, right. Okay, so the key of calculating the kilowatt value is the key idea is that if you are a kilowatt sitting on a rack that can be packaged into different SBOs, right, so you can say, well, this rack belongs to this capacity cell.
 
It also belongs to a composite capacity cell. It also belongs to a UPS bundle. So which means you have multiple ways of being sold to tenants that come from different demand, then your value is higher, right.
 
But if you say, okay, now someone has broken up this capacity cell because 24 racks get committed to one tenant, and there's 12 free floating racks left and empty, then the rack value or the kilowatt value over there gets lower, right, because you don't have a containment premium anymore. So that's the whole kind of idea beyond calculating these values. And I wanted to explain this because the calculation steps may be like a little weird or abstract.
 
(5:55 - 8:35)
So I want to explain what's the kind of business mechanism behind it. Okay. So whether a rack or a particular containment bundle is available is driven by reservation, right.
 
So even before you put any blocks on it, if you're reserved, then you're not available, right. And if someone comes in to say, well, out of this capacity cell, only reserve 24 free floating racks, right, then the capacity cell got broken, partially reserved, then it's not available as a whole. So therefore, this value, OAT value, is scenario dependent also, right, because your reservation status is scenario dependent.
 
So we have to keep this in mind. Okay. There are 10 steps, right.
 
I'm going to go through quickly. I'm running out of time. 10 steps.
 
But then at the end of it, there's going to be a summary of the steps it takes you to calculate these dollar values, right. Okay. And these slides are changed, different from what I had last time, because I had to go through, make sure everything is correct.
 
Okay. So first is we need to create a baseline value at the capacity cell level. And in order to do that, we first try to calculate the value at the row level, right.
 
So that's step one, two, and three. So in the picture, sorry, I should move this further. It's just not very convenient.
 
Okay. This one here. Okay.
 
In the picture here, so the first step is actually step one, two, and three, right. At the end of the three step, you get what we get is a quality adjusted value for every single row, right. So let me explain what that is.
 
So quality adjusted value for every single row, meaning if you're a row that's equipped with liquid cooling versus if you're a row that only has air cooling, your value is different, right. Or if you're a row with a rack density of 60 versus five, then even though you have a rack multiplier effect, but every single kilowatt is also more valuable because you have built a high density row. So those are qualities.
 
(8:35 - 10:26)
So I forgot to say in here, when we do the value, optionality adjusted, yes, but before we even do the optionality, there's a quality adjusted value, right. Okay. Now why row? So we consider row to be the smallest unit where these quality attributes are relatively stable, right.
 
It's very unlikely for a row to have both, half of the row to be liquid only and half of the row to be liquid and air, right. Or half the row to be 60 kilowatt density, half of the row to be 10 kilowatt density. So we consider the row to be relatively uniform.
 
So we use the row to try to give a quality attributes and give it a quality premium. So that's the row, quality adjusted row value, right. In order to do that, we first number two, number two box, right.
 
This is easy to understand. We need to understand the attribute of the row, right. So is it liquid? Is it air? What's the density, et cetera, which is detailed out and then designate the premium, right.
 
So your high or low quality, right. And in order to do that, and now we need to multiply the kilowatt in that row by this premium number so that we can get value, right. And then that kilowatt number is what number one does is how much kilowatt there really is in this row.
 
And that, let me go to the first page, is also actually not, I don't know, hopefully, not the most straightforward thing to think about, right. Because there are multiple, like multiple kilowatt capacity numbers. One way to do this, which is not the right way is to say, oh, a row consists of racks.
 
(10:26 - 12:29)
So I'm going to take all the rack circuit capacity and add them up. So that becomes my row kilowatt number I can use to calculate my value, right. So that is actually not the right because very often when you add up the total rack capacity in a capacity cell, it's actually bigger than what the capacity cell can take, right.
 
So because a capacity cell is constrained by RPPs, by air zones and everything, and that's why this whole data center domain is complex, right. So the real available or can be committed capacity, the smallest one is the voice that exists at the capacity cell level. There's a capacity envelope, right.
 
That means reliably how much you can provision within that capacity cell, right. And that means that you cannot fully load every single rack in that capacity cell because then you may run out of capacity, okay. So therefore, to get a fair value, a kilowatt value for the row, you basically take the capacity cell and allocate it to each row.
 
You have six rows, eight rows, you take the total cell capacity cell and each row gets a share. And how do you allocate that? You do it proportionally by the rack circuit capacity, which is a bigger number, right. You take the total circuit of capacity of that row and you take a proportion, percent, right.
 
So it's a fair mechanism, rough and fair mechanism of allocation. And with this, what you get is what we call a capacity cell allocated capacity, right. It's allocated top from capacity cell.
 
It's not some of the bottom up from the rack at the rack level, at the row level. So you have a row kilowatt number coming out of capacity cell allocation and that's the row kilowatt number you use to multiply for the quality premium and then derive a quality adjusted value, right. Okay, so now let's move to number two, which is actually more probably more intuitive to understand, even though there's more information.
 
(12:30 - 13:09)
So the quality profile of a row, right now we create four different dimensions or four different profile attribute, right. So one is the density, how dense is this rack, right. So, and this we don't do, we just do a sliding scale, we just do a bracket, right.
 
So in general, the denser the racks, the more valuable it is, because it's higher constraints, a higher demand on the infrastructure, right. Occasionally you may have a row which has racks of different densities and this density meaning the rack circuit capacity, right. So this is the rack circuit capacity.
 
(13:11 - 14:00)
So then just do the average, right, and if you belong to a bracket, your premium level is these assigned, right. So if you're higher premium, higher. Okay, the second is the power redundancy, right.
 
So we have seen this before, right, for a cluster may require different power redundancies. So you have n, n plus one, so different kind of things, they are associated with different premium. The second is cooling redundancies, right.
 
So you have different premium, the last is a cooling mode, is air only or air with liquid or full liquid, right. Okay, so these different premiums multiply on top of each other, right. So a rack has, a row has four different attributes.
 
(14:00 - 14:21)
So for example, you have the base dollar value for a rack per kilowatt and every kilowatt in that rack, in that row has a dollar value, but then if it's a higher density, it multiplies by 1.12, right. If it's 2n, it multiplies again by 1.14, right. If it's n plus 2, it multiplies.
 
(14:22 - 24:27)
So you multiply these four numbers, sorry, actually you don't multiply, let me correct myself, I think, you have to do a weight adjustment, right. So basically these numbers don't directly multiply and you have to take them, multiply the number by 35, discounted by 35%, right, and then you add them up together and then you multiply. So therefore, every, so previously I said it was wrong, you don't just multiply them all together, you take a number here, so let's say if this is a row with, right, with this density and it's a 2n by power, you take this number or it's n plus 1 by cooling and it's this, right, and you take each of the four numbers and you take the weighted average of them.
 
So you take 1.12 times 35% plus 1.14 times 20% and plus 1.03 times 15% and 1.07 times 30%, you get one single number which is the row quality premium, hopefully this one is right, right, row quality premium. And that row quality premium in number three, you use it to add, right, to add the premium value. So your row value, quality adjusted, right, which takes the allocated kilowatt, right, of that row and times the per kilowatt reference value which is 180, right, 180 would be the lowest per kilowatt value if you do not have any of these kind of valuable qualities, right, so then you times the quality premium, it becomes a quality adjusted, quality weighted value for the row, right, and row being the smallest unit.
 
Okay, the next one would be simple, okay, well, the whole point of doing row is that row is more smaller unit, so now you can take the row and add up into a capacity cell or you can take a row and distribute it to each rack, right, so these quality adjusted level can conveniently exist at capacity cell level, capacity at rack level, and eventually we want it to be existing at the rack level, right, because it's a smaller unit for us to go to the next calculation. However, you also want to take into account that a rack often exists as a part of the capacity cell, right, by virtue of being part of the capacity cell, it's become more valuable, right, so you have to consider the capacity cell value and then distribute to the rack, and this is where it gets a little slightly kind of more detail-oriented, right, so you could just say this capacity cell has eight rows, so add them up, right, to derive the capacity cell quality adjusted value, but there's one nuance which is the convergence coherence factor, which is, let's say, if you have one type of capacity cell where everyone is liquid-cooled, right, great, right, but if you have a capacity cell where you have a half and half, some rows are liquid-cooled, some rows are air-cooled, then it's less desirable, right, because if as a single unit you're more coherent, then you're more valuable, so that's another adjustment for the coherence factor to apply before we calculate the capacity cell total value, right, so basically how internally uniform the rows are across these same four quality dimensions, right, if you're all the same, is that if you're not the same, then apply a discount, right, and then you do this discount across all these four different dimensions with a weight, you basically get a single discount factor, which is that coherence factor, and therefore when you calculate the capacity cell quality value, yes, you don't just add up the total row, you just apply a coherence factor, which is a discount, right, so it's relatively straightforward. Once you get the capacity cell discount quality value, you just distribute to every single rack within that capacity cell, and also by virtual proportion of the rack circuit capacity, I just do it roughly proportion.
 
Okay, so now we got to this part, right, the green part, the last one, so up to this now, the green boxes, everything is non-scenario dependent because it has nothing to do with the reservation status, right, it's purely based on the attributes of the row and the structure, so it's purely based on a white space blueprint, and the next few R star do have the real consequences, and they are scenario dependent, and the consequences is due to reservations that break up these higher level of constructs. Okay, all right, so now earlier we talked about quality adjustment, we talked about coherence, right, so the next one we're talking about a premium as a part of being part of the SBO, being part of the supply block option, so which I mentioned earlier, right, if you are just a free floating rack, sure, you have value, but if you belong to multiple potential options, SBO stands for supply block options, right, you can be leased out as a capacity cell, or you can be leased out as a room bundle, you can be leased out in different configurations, then you become more valuable, right, so the membership, if you're the rack, it belongs to a base SBO, carries a standard premium rate, right, so you're more valuable, but in addition, if you belong even to composite, you have additional premium, right, adding that additional premium, which is called a composite boost, right, for whatever name, right, users don't need to know these names, right, you boosted your value, and you carry even more premium, you can get to an adjusted premium rate, which is, can be higher than the standard premium rate for belonging to SBO, but on the other side, you may also get discounted if your structure is not clean, right, for example, yes, you belong to a capacity cell, you get a premium, but your capacity cell is, has to straddle all three rooms together, right, it's not composable, it's not Lego-like, right, it's not clean, right, so that is a penalty, right, so there's a discount, so the rules of composite entanglement are explained, so you take the standard premium rate and apply this discounted boost, you just get adjusted premium rate that you can use to apply to the rack, okay, now the key factor, what we say is that this composite boost account or this premium rate probably would not, would be cancelled if you break up the structure, right, so as I said many times, so if you reserve the free floating racks, that capacity cell got broken up, right, the premium no longer exists, right, if you reserve a capacity cell, some composite SPO got broken up, right, so this composite boost may not exist or may not be the same anymore, so that's why the reservations do affect the APRs such as premiums and potentially also the standard premiums to start with and therefore this APRs and SPR values are dependent on which scenario because the reservation is scenario dependent, okay, now here is the specific requirements for, defined for the SPRs and APRs, right, so these are our own internal fixed constant, right, we may change them from time to time but programmatically they're pre-designated, right, so to start with if you belong to a capacity cell room bundle or this, you receive these kind of incremental premiums on every kilowatt value, right, and now these are the rules for discount, so which means if you belong, your capacity cell straddles two or three rooms then you get divided by this, right, if your room bundle straddle across multiple rooms then you get adjustment in this formula and the boost is if your capacity cell belongs to multiple composite SBOs then you get a multiplier, right, but you have to do different things and these have different conditions, so that's the rule, right, and then last is that if this basic SBO is partially reserved, meaning it's broken up, right, part of it is free, part of it is reserved or it's reserved by two different things, then everything is a zero, so the premium disappears, it goes back to a free floating, right, free floating rack or free floating capacity cell, right, so that's the scheme. Now the SBOs is already produced under the prior components, we have the SBO builder, right, so we have the association of data should be there, should be easy to, not too hard to compute as long as conceptually we are clear, right.
 
(24:29 - 28:21)
Okay, so this is just to explain, right, so here it talks about SBO count, right, C is the SBO count, so which means how many composites does this capacity cell belong to in its own family, right, and this total SBO count is produced by the prior component, the SBO builder, right, except that it does not take into account the reservation status, right, so what you can see here is that, so in that Python modules I'm going to drop, right, one of the output of the SBO builder is this association summary table, right, so for every base SBO, right, it tells you what's the total count, right, so plus itself, and this count count anything, so you consider this number is the correct number for the whitespace scenario, right, but if you made any reservation and any SBO becomes partially reserved as we were tracking earlier, and this number has to be deducted, right, some of them cannot be counted, so maybe go from 2 to 1, right, go from 1 to 0, yeah, so depend on that, so per each different scenario, we have to know what's the effective or remaining SBO count, and this count is number of C that is used here to calculate the composite boost, right, okay, so that's it, so we got the APRs, right, so the APR exists within each family, right, capacity cell, room bundle, room PDO bundle, NUBO bundle, so the last step of adjustment is to take the quality adjusted value of the rack, which we concluded on the step 7, and then add and multiply the different APRs, so different premiums to get the quality adjusted kilowatt value for the rack, right, okay, when we get to the rack, we basically finish everything, the rest of them become summaries, right, so the remaining portfolio value, right, which is here, we call it, we should call it remaining portfolio value, basically is outside of the racks that are already reserved, how much, how much is left, how much value is left, right, so basically, you just add up the free racks, right, so for the whack space, it doesn't matter, right, everything is considered free, so you just add up all the racks, right, for the plant scenario, you add up the racks that are free in S1, and for the draft scenario, add up the racks that are free in the specific scenarios, right, okay, so captured capacity value is just the reverse, captured capacity value is this one, captured capacity value is basically the reverse, you are adding up the rack oak of the reserved racks, right, so if you are, depending on the scenario, you find which racks are reserved, you add the rack oak together, you get the total value of it, right, and then this one, average cc per rack is just the total number divided by the number of racks, optionality impact, I did not include here, so you guys actually can ignore this one for now, because it's, it's a little bit complex, and the value, incremental value this number adds is limited, so we can skip this for now, so we'll just have these three values that we have the calculation for.